THIS REPO IS NO LONGER MAINTAINED

We haven't used this for a while. If you would like to take over ownership
of this repo, please let us know.

= sortable-model

Sortable-model provides a DSL for creating named scopes that order the object in question based
on its own attributes or those of its associations. It also provides a method for calling those
scopes that allows the values to come directly from params without the risk of arbitrary code execution.

Examples:

# Schema:
# Student: id (primary key), name (string), :major (string)
# Papers: id (primary key), student_id (int), title (string), grade (int)

class Student < ActiveRecord::Base
  
  has_many :papers

  sortable_model

  can_sort_by :name 
    #=> student.sorted_by(:name) is students ordered by name DESC
    #=> student.sorted_by(:name, true) is students ordered by name ASC
  can_sort_by :grades, :papers => :grade
    #=> student.sorted_by(:grades) is student ordered by the grades of her papers DESC
  can_sort_by :something_complicated, lambda { |stdnt|
    # some code that returns an order hash
  }
    #=> This one is really just a named scope that can use the sorted_by sanitizing method
end

The #sorted_by method takes either strings or symbols for the name of the sorter.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 EdgeCase LLC. See LICENSE for details.
